---
layout: post
title:  2D-ICSS Analyses with ICSSgen and ICSScsv
date:   2021-05-31 00:20:36 +0900
tags: [Software, Computation]
author: Zhe Wang
---

**ICSSgen** and **ICSScsv** are end of support. The basic functionalities have been combined into **py.Aroma**, a multi-functional tool for aromaticity analyses. Please check the [homepage](https://wongzit.github.io/program/pyaroma/) of **py.Aroma** for more information.

**Contents**

- [1. Statement of need](https://wongzit.github.io/2d-icss-analyses-with-icssgen-and-icsscsv/#1-statement-of-need)
- [2. Install and usage](https://wongzit.github.io/2d-icss-analyses-with-icssgen-and-icsscsv/#2-install-and-usage)
- [3. 2D-ICSS analyses of 1-methylazulene](https://wongzit.github.io/2d-icss-analyses-with-icssgen-and-icsscsv/#3-2d-icss-analyses-of-1-methylazulene)

# 1. Statement of need

2D isochemical shielding surface (2D-ICSS) maps, also known as 2D-NICS (nuclear independent chemical shift) maps, are useful tools for investigating the aromaticity of cyclic molecules. A large number of ghost atoms, in addition to the target molecules, must be included in the input file for 2D-ICSS calculations. After completing the calculations, the magnetic shielding tensors of all ghost atoms must be extracted from the output files. This process is a huge and tiresome task; therefore, we present ICSSgen and ICSScsv, two open-source, highly efficient, and user-friendly Python programs, to easily generate 2D-ICSS maps.

# 2. Install and usage

ICSSgen and ICSScsv could be download from [*GitHub*](https://github.com/wongzit). To install and run the programs, please refer to the user manuals.

# 3. 2D-ICSS analyses of 1-methylazulene

2D-ICSS analyses of 1-methylazulene would be discussed in this section. All files in this section could be download from [*here*](https://github.com/wongzit/blogFiles/tree/main/blog_ICSSgen_ICSScsv).

1-Methylazulene was optimized at ωB97X-D/6-31G(d) level of theory with Gaussian 16 B.01 package. The optimized azulene is located on XY plane (Figure 1). Two 2D-ICSS maps would be plotted on the XY plane with Z = 0 and Z = 1, in the range of X from -7 to 7 and Y from -6 6 Å. The input files were created by ICSSgen (Figure 2) and submitted to Gaussian calculations.

<div class="col-sm-7 mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/blog/figure11.png" class="img-fluid" zoomable=true %}
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Figure 1. Optimized geometry of 1-methylazulene.
</div>

<div class="col-sm-7 mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/blog/figure12.png" class="img-fluid" zoomable=true %}
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Figure 2. 2D-ICSS input geometries created by ICSSgen (Z = 0 and Z = 1).
</div>

NMR (GIAO method) calculations were conducted at B3LYP/6-31+G(d) level of theory. The output files were then, processed with ICSScsv. The magnetic shielding tensors (isotropic and ZZ component) of ghost atoms were extracted to .csv files. 2D-ICSS maps were plotted with those date in .csv files by Origin (Figure 3). From these maps, the aromaticity of 1-methylazulene has been well proved by the negative shielding tensor values. Furthermore, the on-plane maps (Z = 1) show contribution from σ bonds, which sometimes annoying. The over-plane maps (Z = 1) well produced the contribution from π electrons.

<div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/blog/figure13.png" class="img-fluid" zoomable=true %}
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Figure 3. 2D-ICSS maps: (up-left) Z = 0, isotropic; (up-right) Z = 0, ZZ; (bottom-left) Z = 1, isotropic; (bottom-right) Z = 1, ZZ.
</div>

In the updated version 3.1, ICSScsv can save the 2D-ICSS image as .png file automatically after processing the output file. Python external library *numpy* and *matplotlib* were imported to plot the image (Figure 4).

<div class="col-sm-7 mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/blog/figure14.png" class="img-fluid" zoomable=true %}
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Figure 4. 2D-ICSS map generated by ICSScsv with matplotlib.
</div>
